## Constructors
> A constructor is a&#123;#123;special method that is called when an object is created. It is used to initialize the object. It
is called automatically when the object is created. It can be used to set initial values for object attributes.

Let's understand constructor.

- Create a class Student
```
package Constructors;

public class Student {
    private String name;
    private String email;
    private  Integer age;
    private String batchName;
    private Integer psp;
//Setter
    public void setName(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }
// Getter

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void changeBatch(String batchName){
        this.batchName=batchName;
        System.out.println("Batch changed from "+this.batchName+" to "+batchName);
    }

}

```
- The code below will create a new object of Student class.
```
Student s1=new Student();
s1.setName("Eklavya");
```
Here we can see we have not defined any constructor, yet object has been created.
This means JVM creates a default constructor if we don't define by ourselves.

### Default Constructor
A default constructor is a constructor created by the compiler if we do not define any constructor(s) for a
class.
A default constructor is a constructor that either has no parameters, or if it has parameters, all the
parameters have default values. If no user-defined constructor exists for a class and one is needed, the
compiler implicitly declares a default parameterless constructor.
A default constructor is also known as a no-argument constructor or a nullary constructor. All fields are left
at their initial value of 0 (integer types), 0.0 (floating-point types), false (boolean type), or null (reference
types).
### Syntax of Constructor
In Java, every class must have a constructor. Its structure looks similar to a method, but it has different
purposes.
```
<Constructor Modifiers> <Constructor Declarator> <Constructor Body>
```
They can be public, private, protected, or package
access, based on other access modifiers. Unlike methods, a constructor can't be abstract, static, final,
native, or synchronized.
```ConstructorName (Parameter List){Constructor Body}```

### No args constructor/non parameterised constructor
Declared by user
```
public Student(){
    //No args constructor
}
```

### Parameterised constructors

```
public Student(String name, int age){
    this.name=name;
    this.age=age;
}

Student student = new Student("Eklavya", 18);
```
- Here we can notice , constructor methods do not have return statement.
- JVM automatically return the class  internally.

### Copy Constructor
A copy constructor is a member function that initializes an object using another object of the same class.
```
class Student {
 private String name;
 private String email;
 public Student(String name, String email) {
 this.name = name;
 this.email = email;
 }
 public Student(Student student) {
 this.name = student.name;
 this.email = student.email;
  }
 }

```
In Java, constructors differ from other methods in that:
- Constructors never have an explicit return type.
- Constructors cannot be directly invoked (the keyword “new” invokes them).
- Constructors should not have non-access modifiers.
