The major issue is that multiple threads are accessing a shared resource at the same time.
### Characteristic of synchronisation problem

- **Critical section**
  A section of code that is accessed by multiple threads. When multiple threads access the same critical section, the result is a synchronisation problem that might yield wrong or inconsistent results.
- **Race Conditions** 
  When more than one thread tries to enter the critical section at the same time.
- **Preemption**
  When a thread is interrupted by another thread. It could be possible that the interrupted thread is in the middle of a critical section. This could result in the interrupted thread not being able to finish the critical section and yield inconsistent results.

### Properties of a good solution
`Mutual Exclusion`
The major issue is that multiple threads are accessing a shared resource at the same time.

`Progress` If a thread wants to enter the critical section, it will eventually be able to do so.

`Bounded Waiting` If a thread wants to enter the critical section, it will eventually be able to do so, but only after a finite number of other threads have entered the critical section.

`No busy Waiting`
If a thread wants to enter the critical section, it will not be able to do so until the critical section is free. It has to keep checking if the critical section is free. This is called busy waiting.

`Notification`
If a thread is waiting to enter the critical section, it should be notified when the critical section is free.