### `Synchronized` keyword
The `synchronized` keyword is a way to solve the synchronisation problem. The synchronized keyword is a way to ensure that only one thread can access a critical section at a time.

A `synchronized` method or block can only be accessed by one thread at a time. If a thread is accessing a synchronized method or block, other threads cannot access the synchronized method or block. If a thread is accessing a synchronized method or block, other threads have to wait until the thread exits the synchronized method or block.

Following is an example of a synchronized method:

```java
public class Count {
    private int count = 0;

    public synchronized void increment() {
        count++;
    }

    public synchronized void decrement() {
        count--;
    }

    public int getCount() {
        return count;
    }
}
```

In the above example, the `increment()` and `decrement()` methods are synchronized. This means that only one thread can access the increment() and decrement() methods at a time. If a thread is accessing the increment() method, other threads cannot access the increment() method. If a thread is accessing the decrement() method, other threads cannot access the decrement() method. If a thread is accessing the increment() method, other threads have to wait until the thread exits the increment() method. If a thread is accessing the decrement() method, other threads have to wait until the thread exits the decrement() method.

Similarly, the synchronized keyword can be used to synchronize a block of code. Following is an example of a synchronized block:
```java
public class Count {
    private int count = 0;

    public void increment() {
        synchronized (this) {
            count++;
        }
    }

    public void decrement() {
        synchronized (this) {
            count--;
        }
    }

    public int getCount() {
        return count;
    }
}
```
If you declare a method as `synchronized`, only one thread will be able to access any synchronized method in the class. This is because the `synchronized` keyword is associated with the object.