## Producer Consumer Problem
Suppose producer produce product and consumer consume it once it is available.

### Cases that can happen
- Producer cannot produce if the specified product has been already made.For example: Here `_ _ _ _` four slots
available to put product by producer. If <u>**P1**</u> <u>**P2**</u> <u>**P3**</u> <u>**P4**</u>, slots are filled ,
the producer won't be able to produce more unless it is consumed by **Consumers**.
- Similarly, if there are no products are produced yet, consumer cannot buy it.

If the above two cases are being handled we can have multiple producers and multiple consumers in my shop.

But if we use `mutex` or `synchronized`, we cannot have multiple producers and consumers.

So to solve this problem we use `Semaphores`.

### Semaphores

Semaphores are a synchronization mechanism used in concurrent programming to control access to a shared resource by
multiple processes or threads.
Semaphores are a fundamental concept in concurrent programming and are used to implement various synchronization
patterns to ensure the correct and orderly execution of concurrent processes or threads.

- As to `mutex` has `lock` and `unlock` methods.Semaphore has `acquire` and `release` methods.

````java
import java.util.concurrent.Semaphore;

Semaphore semaphore = new Semaphore(4);

//Here 4 means only 4 threads will be allowed to perform their operations synchronously.
````
So we can say fromm above declaration that `mutex =~ Semaphore (1)`,which means we allow only 1 thread to execute in
critical section and the same can be done using `mutex`/`synchronized` block too.

## Producer Consumer Problem Solution

We have multiple producer and multiple consumer threads, let's say, 5 producer thread,5 consumer thread created. OS will
decide to run any of the thread.

We create separate Semaphores for producer and consumer, let that be `P` and `C`. We have four slots of product which
producer can place its product and consumer can buy from 4 of them.

At current 4 slots are empty `_ _ _ _`
So producer can create 4 products at this instance.Hence `P=4` and `C=0`,since there is no product so consumer can not
consume it.

```
//Producer

p.acquire();
shop.add(new Product);
c.release();

//Consumer

c.acquire();
shop.remove();
p.release();

```
Once the producer `acquire` the critical section, the product gets added and `P`value decremented ~~4~~,~~3~~,~~2~~,~~1~~
and `release` will increment the value of `C` which product is available to buy.And once the consumer bought the product
space will be again empty to filled with a new or more products.

[Producer-Consumer Solution Code](../../code/ProducerConsumerSolution)