Object class is the parent class of all the classes in Java.
It is present in `java.lang` package.
Since all the classes implicitly or explicitly inherit from object class, it provides lots of fundamental methods like:
- `toString()`
- `equals()`
- `hashcode()`
- `getClass()`
- `finalize()`

Consider you want to make a class
which prints integers called as IntegerPrinter.
We will write some code like this:
```java
class IntegerPrinter{
    Integer intToPrint;
    public IntegerPrinter(Integer n){
        this.intToPrint=n;
    }
    
    public void print(){
        System.out.println(intToPrint);
    }
}
```
Now, if we want to print double we have to write:
```java
class DoublePrinter{
    Double doubleToPrint;
    public DoublePrinter(Double n){
        this.doubleToPrint=n;
    }
    
    public void print(){
        System.out.println(doubleToPrint);
    }
}
```

Duplicate the same code again and again is a bad practice Here the class has fewer members imagine what would be
the scenario when the number of members increases This problem is called as **class explosion**.

Another approach might be to create an Object Printer class and pass the object that you want to print.
```java
class ObjectPrinter{
    Object objectToPrint;
    public ObjectPrinter(Object n){
        this.objectToPrint=n;
    }
    
    public void print(){
        System.out.println(objectToPrint);
    }
}
```
Here we can use different class, but what if we have to return a value,suppose we want to return a `String`but we will
get an object. Also, whenever multiple type we use we will explicitly typecast the return value. What if there is string,
and we are typecasting it to `Integer`. We will get run time errors.

### Generics
To solve the above solution we use **Generics**
`Generics` means parameterized types. The idea is to allow type (Integer, String, … etc., and user-defined types) to be a
parameter to methods, classes, and interfaces. Using Generics, it is possible to create classes that work with different
data types. An entity such as class, interface, or method that operates on a parameterized type is a generic entity.
[Generics](../../code/Generics)