# HLD(High Level Design)
> Having a bird's view of the whole system/software which is going to be created. 
### Questions which got answered in HLD are about
- What is the overall architecture of the system
- How are the different module or components are connected?
- What technologies or programming languages are used?
- What is the data flow within the system?
- How will security be implemented?
- Performance and scalability strategy?
- Major design patterns involved?
- Deployment strategy?
- How system handles maintenance and updates?
# LLD(Low Level Design)
> Low-level design (LLD) is a component-level design process that follows a step-by-step refinement process. This process can be used for designing data structures, required software architecture, source code and ultimately, performance algorithms.

The goal of LLD or a low-level design (LLD) is to give the internal logical design of the actual program code. Low-level design is created based on the high-level design. LLD describes the class diagrams with the methods and relations between classes and program specs. It describes the modules so that the programmer can directly code the program from the document.
A good low-level design document makes the program easy to develop when proper analysis is utilized to create a low-level design document. The code can then be developed directly from the low-level design document with minimal debugging and testing. Other advantages include lower cost and easier maintenance
Ultimately, LLD has the following goals:
- Low level implementation details of a system
- organization of code
- write good software

## Good software characteristics
- Maintainable
- Extensible
- Scalable

### Maintainable
- Easy to understand
- Easy to change
- Easy to debug
### Extensible
> Suppose we have created a payment software it supports debit/credit cards mode of payment. If we want to extend the functionality and feature to add another mode of payment like UPI/QR,we can do so easily.
> Otherwise the code will not be extensible.
 
- Easy to add new features
- When requirements change our code should support that.
### Scalability
System need to be stable while adapting to changes, upgrades, overhauls, and resource reduction.