Suppose we receive 100 million requests then we have to create 100 million threads to execute the task.
This is not possible as we have fixed memory.

So `Executors` are used so that a developer need not worry about creating threads and assigning the task to it.
`Executors ` are part of `jav.util`  **concurrent** package.
They create a thread pool so that we can reuse threads from that thread pool.

The Executor interface is used to execute tasks. It is a generic interface that can be used to execute any kind of task. The Executor interface has only one method:\
```java
public interface Executor {
void execute(Runnable command);
}
```
The `execute` method takes a `Runnable` object as a parameter. The `Runnable` interface is a functional interface that has only one method. Executors internally use a thread pool to execute the tasks. The `execute` method is non-blocking. It returns immediately after submitting the task to the thread pool. The `execute` method is used to execute tasks that do not return a result.

The `Executor` interface has a method called `newCachedThreadPool` that returns an `ExecutorService` object. The `ExecutorService` interface extends the `Executor` interface. The `ExecutorService` interface has methods to execute tasks that return a result. The `ExecutorService` interface also has methods to shut down the thread pool.

To run a task using the `Executor` interface, we can use the `newCachedThreadPool` method to create an `ExecutorService` object. The `newCachedThreadPool` method returns an `ExecutorService` object that uses a thread pool with a variable number of threads. The newCachedThreadPool method creates a new thread for each task if there are no idle threads in the thread pool. If there is an idle thread in the thread pool, the `newCachedThreadPool` method reuses the idle thread to execute the task. The `newCachedThreadPool` method returns an `ExecutorService` object that uses a thread pool with a variable number of threads.

```
 Executor executor=Executors.newCachedThreadPool();
executor.execute(printer);
```